README.md, before:

# ScanGo - AI-Powered Smart Checkout & Product Analysis

Welcome to ScanGo, a futuristic e-commerce application that redefines the shopping experience. Built with Next.js and powered by Genkit, this project demonstrates a smart checkout system that not only facilitates purchases but also empowers consumers with deep, AI-driven insights into the products they buy.

![ScanGo App Showcase](https://placehold.co/1200x600.png)
*A placeholder for your app's hero image or GIF.*

---

## 🌟 The Vision

In today's retail landscape, customers lack immediate access to crucial product information like eco-friendliness, health impacts, or hidden discounts. ScanGo bridges this gap by providing an intelligent system where a simple scan reveals a product's full story, enabling shoppers to make informed, healthier, and more sustainable choices right in the aisle.

## ✨ Key Features

- **AI Product Scanner:** Use your device's camera to scan a product and get instant, detailed analysis on:
  - Eco-friendliness score and carbon impact.
  - Health and safety information, including harmful ingredients.
  - Daily discounts and estimated expiry dates.
  - Suggestions for better, healthier, or greener alternatives.
- **Modern E-commerce UI:** A beautiful and responsive interface built with ShadCN UI and Tailwind CSS.
- **AI-Powered Recommendations:** Utilizes Genkit to provide intelligent product suggestions based on the user's shopping cart contents.
- **Dynamic Product Filtering:** Easily filter products by category to find exactly what you need.
- **Interactive Shopping Cart:** A fully functional cart to manage items, update quantities, and see a real-time total.
- **Dark & Light Modes:** A theme toggle allows users to switch between a sleek dark mode and a clean light mode, with their preference saved.
- **Secure Checkout Simulation:** A modal-based checkout form for a seamless payment experience.

## 🖼️ Screenshots

| Light Mode | Dark Mode |
| :---: | :---: |
| ![Light Mode Screenshot](https://placehold.co/600x400.png) | ![Dark Mode Screenshot](https://placehold.co/600x400.png) |
| *Main product-browsing interface.* | *Sleek dark theme for comfortable viewing.* |

| AI Scan Analysis | AI Cart Recommendations |
| :---: | :---: |
| ![AI Scan Screenshot](https://placehold.co/600x400.png) | ![AI Recommendations Screenshot](https://placehold.co/600x400.png) |
| *Instant product insights from a simple scan.* | *Personalized suggestions based on cart items.* |


## 🚀 Tech Stack

- **Framework:** [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) (with App Router)
- **Language:** [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- **Styling:** [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- **UI Components:** [ShadCN UI](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- **Generative AI:** [Genkit](https://firebase.google.com/docs/genkit) (for product analysis and recommendations)
- **Icons:** [Lucide React](https://lucide.dev/)

## 🛠️ Getting Started

Follow these instructions to get a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18 or later)
- npm or yarn

### Installation & Running

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone <your-repository-url>
    cd <repository-folder>
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Run the development server:**
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

Open [http://localhost:9002](http://localhost:9002) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the main page by modifying `src/app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

Commit message:

enhance readme and add structure.md

README.md, after:

# ScanGo - AI-Powered Smart Checkout & Product Analysis

Welcome to ScanGo, a futuristic e-commerce application that redefines the shopping experience. Built with Next.js and powered by Genkit, this project demonstrates a smart checkout system that not only facilitates purchases but also empowers consumers with deep, AI-driven insights into the products they buy.

![ScanGo App Showcase](https://placehold.co/1200x600.png)
*A placeholder for your app's hero image or GIF.*

---

## 🌟 The Vision

In today's retail landscape, customers lack immediate access to crucial product information like eco-friendliness, health impacts, or hidden discounts. ScanGo bridges this gap by providing an intelligent system where a simple scan reveals a product's full story, enabling shoppers to make informed, healthier, and more sustainable choices right in the aisle.

## ✨ Key Features

- **AI Product Scanner:** Use your device's camera to scan a product and get instant, detailed analysis on:
  - Eco-friendliness score and carbon impact.
  - Health and safety information, including harmful ingredients.
  - Daily discounts and estimated expiry dates.
  - Suggestions for better, healthier, or greener alternatives.
- **Modern E-commerce UI:** A beautiful and responsive interface built with ShadCN UI and Tailwind CSS.
- **AI-Powered Recommendations:** Utilizes Genkit to provide intelligent product suggestions based on the user's shopping cart contents.
- **Dynamic Product Filtering:** Easily filter products by category to find exactly what you need.
- **Interactive Shopping Cart:** A fully functional cart to manage items, update quantities, and see a real-time total.
- **Dark & Light Modes:** A theme toggle allows users to switch between a sleek dark mode and a clean light mode, with their preference saved.
- **Secure Checkout Simulation:** A modal-based checkout form for a seamless payment experience.

## 🖼️ Screenshots

| Light Mode | Dark Mode |
| :---: | :---: |
| ![Light Mode Screenshot](https://placehold.co/600x400.png) | ![Dark Mode Screenshot](https://placehold.co/600x400.png) |
| *Main product-browsing interface.* | *Sleek dark theme for comfortable viewing.* |

| AI Scan Analysis | AI Cart Recommendations |
| :---: | :---: |
| ![AI Scan Screenshot](https://placehold.co/600x400.png) | ![AI Recommendations Screenshot](https://placehold.co/600x400.png) |
| *Instant product insights from a simple scan.* | *Personalized suggestions based on cart items.* |


## 🚀 Tech Stack

- **Framework:** [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) (with App Router)
- **Language:** [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- **Styling:** [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- **UI Components:** [ShadCN UI](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- **Generative AI:** [Genkit](https://firebase.google.com/docs/genkit) (for product analysis and recommendations)
- **Icons:** [Lucide React](https://lucide.dev/)

For a detailed breakdown of the project structure, please see [STRUCTURE.md](STRUCTURE.md).

## 🛠️ Getting Started

Follow these instructions to get a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18 or later)
- npm or yarn

### Installation & Running

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone <your-repository-url>
    cd <repository-folder>
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies:**
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Run the development server:**
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

Open [http://localhost:9002](http://localhost:9002) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the main page by modifying `src/app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.
